cool hello everyone welcome to the IPF s
all hands call mr. Saltonstall with that
in quite some time dude the holidays
I've done too loud where i am medic over
confess I'm a couple of notes before we
start the call generally what we're
going to do is give it through the
agenda if you can find in the notes link
which is on IRC d also on this sprite
issue I was going to go through very
quickly sort of covered if we have any
free space after the call we may be able
to go into specific issues that people
want to or we could designate time later
in the day for like more extensive video
calls unlike in previous weeks or not to
be going with set times for various
endeavor so go out to your best chance
at the best apps not VFS won't be having
their own separate hours but we're going
to do things as needed and then we have
specific sprint calls but we're going to
have after this call for various
endeavors that we're trying to do
differently we've sort of adopted a bit
of a scrum pattern so we're coming up
talk more about that missed call i just
wanted to let you guys know beforehand
um finally there's a note about the
thumb looks this call and everything
involving the address community follows
the abbey fess code of conduct okay I'm
checked it out it's in I beep s /
community Angela and with that david
diaz is taking notes if you don't see
your name at the top of the notes please
add it there and let's start with a rope
all generally we start from the furthest
east in the world going to the furthest
west I don't secret book to today so it
looks like probably hot you want to
start us off right hello my name is HUD
I work on orbit and octopus I am based
in Berlin
who's next Victor I think it's me
actually I'm a member my name's cakes
and yeah I work on the goat side about
this fabulous for example orbit over
there is largely for the east
large your turn who are you
this is Lars Lars great Bartlett's
Eastman he works on infrastructure and
packet switching cool Victor hey me
first go ahead sir why are you always
forgetting me hey I'm free will I live
in Germany but in the South for ibook
and I work on IP us and lots of
JavaScript things especially Jace I BFFs
so my name is Victor live in barcelona i
work on JSI gfs related things the
infrastructure stuff
your mutant time in
don't double meet me so I everyone and
I'm based out of Lisbon sweet- i'm
richard i am currently in argentina
which is further east of america I
didn't know that beforehand and I work
on documentation jsf PFS and various
other small things for internal tool
richard FYI when you're when you're not
muted the background noise sort of
drowns out everyone else like it's
turning down the other people's mics um
I'm Matt I'm I'm in philadelphia and i'm
the program manager for protocol lab so
I deal with a lot of the overall
organizational roadmap stuff and
engagement with a lot of other
organizations and this quarter I'm going
to also be putting back on my project
management hat for a couple of our
sprints and you'll be it'll be hearing
more about that in a little bit
at a project management head
what was that last you're really quiet
you have a project management at yeah
I'm wearing it right now it's it's
invisible and glittery Frank and Johnny
I think I know where you guys are but
i'm not sure where you are in relation
to each other so yeah I am a way west
coast so your last yeah Ronnie alright
so Johnny crunch Jonathan Holtz
transcend X is my company and I building
apps using I BFS and I'm Frank I'm in
way western United States and i'm
working on primarily goober daddy's I
PFS with Victor that's his project and
other various networking oriented things
started on the I PFS about 23 weeks ago
and I've been doing networking related
stuff because that's my specialty uncle
Donny ware us student at USC in Los
Angeles west coast
what do you do I'm like an a senior
computer science student well also an
applied computer security minors
awesome school I thank you everyone so
that was our roll call
looking at the agenda there's a call for
additional agenda items Matt would you
like to take over the lead of the call
seeing as how I apparently very loud
okay sure I can I can lead I'm also I
think I'm feel I'm submitted most of the
agenda items so which is why I didn't
pick up from Lars to be there to be the
facilitator because too I'm the
moderator and the speaker I'll keep
facilitating then Matt you want to go
with a q1 roadmap what's it about yeah
so this is um so the announcement is
that we are switching as Richard
mentioned earlier we're kind of
switching up our structure for how we're
how we're planning our roadmap for the
quarter which then impacts a lot of
things including how these how these
Monday calls are going to be structured
the key the key thing to unveil is that
link right there the waffle board with
four I PFS / roadmaps that is on the
quarterly roadmap of the projects that
protocol labs people are committing to
spend time on and the key thing here is
this notion of a sprint I borrowed from
broad from scrum not surprising I but
the key thing here is that for us on
this road map a sprint is sprint's are
always two weeks long on this road map
and and a sprint if someone is on a
sprint then they are then that the work
of that sprint is the center of their
attention for that whole two weeks so
that if there of course there might be
little things that they're going to pay
attention to during that time but
they're going to be primarily paying
attention to the work of that sprint
during those two weeks now because a
card can only exist in one place on a
waffle board at a time umm actually I've
never tested that Richard could you try
putting week three and week four on one
of those issues and see if it shows up
in both places but I so for right now
those sprints there in though the week
that starts the sprint so right now
we're at the beginning of week three of
the year so under week three you see
that we're starting to Sprint's one
that's focused on data hub that I'll
talk about in a moment and then one
that's focused on the JSI PFS accessing
go I PFS content from the browser uh and
and to beat is leading that one rich I
see you shaking your head so it didn't
work okay oh well so yeah that's the
that is the the unveiling of of the road
map of what we will be focusing our what
the protocol labs people will be
focusing their attention on over the
coming quarter and then people are
welcome to add their own work on to this
roadmap we have added this notion of a
sprint II know like a little sprint that
involves maybe one person or two people
working for maybe a couple days or a
week and so that's not quite a full
fledged sprint it doesn't necessarily
have a project manager coordinating it
but it's something that we won't want to
acknowledge on the roadmap as taking up
someone's time so that is the new
roadmap and the new sprint structures
sprints and sprint e knows which brings
up this I've noticed with all these new
cards that creates this confusion of we
have had this notion of the Monday
sprint calls um and the tickets for
those are marked with the labeled sprint
and so that is creating I think it's
going to create some confusion about
what's a sprint versus what's what is
just a weekly check-in call Richard so I
call it spring to use be called sprint
ABCDE it's fine if we rename it to like
week one sprint for week two and three
spring problem
okay well we can follow I just wanted to
call it call it out at this plant is
like that's going to be a little bit
confusing until we figure out the right
language for distinguishing between
these weekly calls versus these things
that we are calling Sprint's because
they are modeled on the scrum notion of
a sprint um and then the other thing to
call out with this new roadmap is I we
put our heads together about
acknowledging that a number of the
endeavors have sort of gone stale so
number of things that people have been
working on have sort of drifted out of
being getting full attention and so
rather than letting those just sort of
sit kind of half acknowledged we're
being a little bit more formal about
acknowledging what projects have gone
stale what can we do to keep them fresh
and there's a there's a pull request
there that has a list of the endeavors
and their statuses so which ones are
stale which ones are actively maintained
and where there are a bunch of issues
I've spun up for the captains of each of
those endeavors to follow up and set the
plan of what's going to happen to that
endeavor over this next quarter that's
partially as far as what's important for
the community that's partially um so
that community members can know if
there's if there's an endeavor that you
care about that has been marked as being
basically we don't have the bandwidth to
handle to handle supporting it right now
then that's a place where community
members could step up and take
captainship of that endeavor so
hopefully this gives more clarity of
ways that people can get involved in
helping this code stay healthy and fresh
that's that's the the unveiling do
people have questions or comments or
things I missed that you want to add
maybe one comment about a mile or dinner
yes okay maybe one comment about waffle
bots for the father sprints so right now
we opened up all the issues regarding
regarding tasks of sprints in the
respective repose of the wealth of the
endeavor for example the jsf PFS rico
and the archives rico and the waffle
balls of these are by you well but you
can look at what's in progress and
what's next and whatever keys are yeah I
um so I think it's going to take us a
couple weeks to get this really clear um
but the the main thing would be that so
this waffle board is currently showing
sprint issues that are in the IPF SPM
repository and we I have a hunch that
what will work is to use those sprint
issues as your sort of very minimal
consistent reference point to know who's
on the team who's the PM or the primary
contact for that sprint and where do I
where do I find the waffle board for
that spring and um and that it might be
just and what are the dates that that
springs happening on so we might put
that in for we might start putting that
basic input into these tickets into
these issues in I PFS p.m. and then you
can use those to find the waffle board
for where we're tracking the actual
active work per project is that devidas
I is that sort of a line with what you
were thinking in terms of how to track
your sprints
sorry I all captured them because I was
going through all the notes i'm opening
two world wars and trying to like find
my way through all these tabs could you
summarize it yeah the main the main
thing we are just a simple thing of
these issues that are in ipf SPM that
are marked with the sprint label they're
sort of like the reference point that
lets you then that you could then use to
find the waffle board for all the work
related to that spring so so I PFS p.m.
gives us this roadmap for the whole
organization but then those individual
Sprint's won't have a ton of information
they just let you figure out like Oh
divides the lead on this project lars
and lars and kuba are working on it with
him and it's happening on these weeks
and i can find the waffle board for all
the relevant like the actual tasks
related to that sprint here like in
whichever repo right so what we did we
expanded a little bit and in addition to
have this rentable point for like who is
working on this project only sprint for
these two weeks we also list all the
tasks that we enumerated during the prep
session so last week we went for one
hour and all and we just like kind of
like brainstormed a little bit and I try
to understand what are the things that
we have to do that fulfill the needs for
the goal of a sprint and everything that
was not a need for this print we put as
like an extra as a bonus like about a
smile the other thing that we agreed
that like we felt it was a very good
thing to do is daily check-ins on the
spring issue so people can tell on the
spring issue what they're going to be
working on that day and in the end of
the day they can also tell the rest of
the people working with them what did
they manage to finish and if they got
blocking something so that's this way we
are like a daily iteration cycle where
everyone knows what everyone else is
working on
and if there is something that is more
urgent because we realize halfway or if
someone gets well then we can like try
to invoke it worse that person as soon
as possible the other thing that we also
scheduled was to check point x so we'll
be checking in with each other as a
group at both thursdays of this thursday
next week stairs as well and then it's
just like for us to sync all together
and like physically describe what were
the challenges so far wiring sustainable
task step everyone was a sign for and
the reason why thursday not friday is
because it gives us like the extra day
before the weekend for us to crunch some
tasks and get like you go happy to the
weekend and then I'm come back next
Monday and continue the work which will
also be very powerful for next week when
we are in the end of the sprint like to
checking one day before the end of the
sprint so that we can like just do that
extra mile with a huge a lot of energy
so that everyone can I can finish all
the tasks they proposed to during this
print so so yeah like we basically to
the discussion between the people that
work operating the browser accesses
going papers print we are trying we are
not sure if this is the best thing it
might be too much overhead it might be
too much in communication it might be
too little we still enough this is the
first place so look at how I report back
and how everyone feels so far I've been
going good but it just first day so
random and I by contrast I'm trying
slightly different stuff with the sprint
I'm leading wear tomorrow we're gonna do
more of we wanted to do it today but
half the team's not available so
tomorrow we'll be doing more traditional
kind of sprint planning call where we
will all look at the list of so I'm
currently working on building up the
list of stories and objectives and what
are the things involved in that and
break
that out as issues and issues that
people could claim and then what we'll
do tomorrow is a longer call they're
usually less than an hour but there's
certainly more than 20 minutes where we
will read through all the stories will
look through all the stories and have
conversations about how hard are they
who wants to work on what why are we
doing like why is that story written
that way all of that stuff will have
that as the sort of launch of the sprint
and then and then will we will we
haven't decided whether we're going to
do actual synchronous daily stand-ups or
do the same thing that you guys are
doing of just adding the issues and
adding the comments on to an issue I
will discuss that tomorrow too when one
thing I share the link i can share again
for with you like i do the recording of
the session at the last thursday in
preparation for these two weeks and they
have visited a lot of like feedback from
everyone and a lot of thoughts and like
the reasons why we are doing a
synchronous chickens to an issue and not
you know like a call and so on so that
might be useful information while you're
planning for the rest of them great I'm
glad you recorded that I heard that like
people told me piecemeal what was
discussed but I like only only got a
little bits and pieces of it so i'll be
happy to watch the recording house n you
going oh so yeah that's the that's the
shift in structure which Oh something I
wanted to call out for community members
following this is the part of the point
here of publishing this roadmap is that
it allows is that the people from
protocol labs have put our heads
together to figure out what we are
spending out we are what we are
committing our time to working on and
making it clear what we're working on
what that's aiming at achieving and to
some extent why we're working on that um
which then gives room for community
members one to know what to expect from
what we're working on but also it gives
you room
to have a sense of where you can
contribute either by picking up
something that's not getting attention
or contributing to an exist esperan
we're already committed to and so this
is where I'm hoping in the long term
that will allow us to build more of a
sense of the community coordinating by
communicating about what they're
focusing on and why and that that people
can sort of build up a community roadmap
that extends beyond just what protocol
labs is focusing on whereas by contrast
last quarter we were sort of like we're
going to work on everything and and it
like didn't letely leave really clear
paths for people to get involved and so
this is that's part of this shift is it
gives a more entry points for people and
it also turned out that we're going to
work on everything then lead very far
yeah I hope to write up a blog post
about thrashing and what we learned from
the last quarter and i will see if i
have time to write it up
Thank You Man someone else have any more
questions about the last point
no sweet ok the next person is mad with
uptake optical disk or attic yeah so
starting late last week there was there
was sort of a and a jump in the amount
of people participating on today matt is
talking with Matt I don't know what that
means but um the so there are more
people in the in the discourse channel
asking questions so this is our
opportunity to test discourse where see
whether how it actually is working in
terms of allowing us to UM let people
ask questions and let us answer
questions but it's very very quickly
brought up things where people are
asking questions on discourse that are
already answered in the faq so it brings
up that that issue of how do we handle
that connection of faq versus forums but
also yeah I mainly wanted to get it on
everyone's radar because some people
expressed misgivings about discourse
because we had not properly tested it we
weren't really trying it so here's an
opportunity to really try it there
people numerous people asking genuinely
interesting good questions that we can
try answering one thing to note there is
that we had part of the plan of testing
and moving through this course was
moving the FAQ to this course um it
might make sense to actually do that now
that people are starting to use it and
it make it easier and more obvious or at
least start creating a post which is pin
were linked in the pin arm to the FAQ to
make sure people read it before posting
there a couple of ways you can make that
in this course happen cool
sir process for moving that forward
besides just saying now is a good time
to interface to know when we would
switch over whether I should move the
world epic you something I for the short
term I would say at least just add a
pins note saying make sure to check the
faq and then you might because there's
also just a figuring out of what's
what's going to be a smooth way to move
the faq over because like the faq you
don't like look looking at the stuff in
the faq a lot of them are lengthy
discussions where multiple people have
it has function like a forum so how you
translate that into stuff how you would
move that on two discourses a little bit
unclear um but so for the short term i
would say at least just put that link up
and sounds good thank you everyone check
out this course david is there a way to
enable get up authentication scores let
people that are used to interact with us
to me that they don't have to create in
your home yes I think so Richard might
know but I know that it is possible if
you're running your own copy of
discourse but I think it might not be
possible with it we're in like in the
trial version where we gone where we're
just eat I PFS that try dis crumbs calm
maybe large nose no but I was just going
to suggest if the prior version is
restricted in the set of features but
maybe we can just flip it to a paid
version I think thank you I don't know
we're definitely I mean there were
things like a trial version only works
with HTTP not https um and I think the
trial version did not does not allow
anonymous posting so there were their
work there were some like real concerns
from some people saying like this
doesn't work but those concerns would be
addressed if we switch
if we if we finish the trial and switch
to just using it we can address those
concerns
what I mean is our own trial of this
course doesn't necessarily but it
doesn't require that we're using the
trial version of this close for that we
can conduct our own trial with the full
version of it as well yeah good point
right thank you moving on to the next
point build on if you want to tell us
who you are and we're doing here we
could maybe help you where you go us
yeah so like I said I'm a senior at USC
study computer science and minor name
applied computer security and for this
class I'm have the opportunity to work
and then open a new project and I am
really interested in this project and I
want to help contribute and some taxi
and like at some guidance or invested
couple shed
riddle yeah welcome that's cool very
cool so I have another note you're
guarding what we just talked about I can
actually enable github and Google login
into this course right now thanks to
that goal down a canoe with my more a
bit about like what you're interested in
as JavaScript coline multi-format lipika
PD yes I have more experience with
JavaScript and Python as far as the
implementations go or I PFS David so
welcome awesome letter your arm we have
a bunch of people coming and
experiencing I PFS especially the
JavaScript version for the first time we
actually now have in an issue like just
a notes from someone at spent two weeks
digging to all the repos like
investigating asking us questions
jumping into these meetings and
basically getting information that like
you will probably need as you go through
the IPS mountain in the beginning it
might be e like seem overwhelming
because there's a lot of modules and a
lot of pieces that click together but
most of them if I very well all clearly
fine interfaces you just like takes a
little like some guys to know where
everything is what I would recommend is
like for you to read those notes to read
they'll look like you the ratio and then
like to go through issues that have L
pointed and difficulty easy or moderate
and try to solve them like if that issue
in just a few paths planned as output at
that it means it like someone can tackle
that issue and not be they can go
from the beginning to the end and like
solve that problem and they will not
have to waking any spec nor after
waiting some something else to be fixed
and typically those issues are also like
very well describes like they say what
is the problem I need to be done and if
it's not the case always feel free to
ask
issues and what is there's a problem I
don't understand and we or anyone you
think we like jump and like make sure
you have all the information you need to
to get the issue done and yeah I keep
coming to these chats we are also always
available in IRC and key lab is always
like one really good medium to talk with
us and yeah like keep us posted like we
are happy to help you w tell us great
thanks so much going to post your issue
sweet awesome hopefully they'll help
make sure text Johnny's looking at the
agenda I believe those are all of the
items that we had to cover this hour
with someone like to volunteer to be the
moderator next time
jeweler I would but uh likely not gonna
be here next Monday I don't else brutal
thank you ah that's great see what yeah
you can now login with get up sorry but
we just didn't know that we could do it
we're asking pro volunteer thurs I think
but I didn't hear what you were asking
for oh I just nominate you as a tearful
moderator oh thank you and then Victor
your note taker next week thank you um
alright well that was very democratic
awesome um since there are no more items
on this call I am going to say that
we're pretty much done with the All
Hands call uh Lars what's next yeah good
question Matt I can answer that so first
of all we can use this time if anyone
has any sort of open community
discussion you want to have I can
discuss that now but once we're done
with this call which if we finish early
that's fine we'll just start the next
ones early on we're still not one
hundred percent sure how we'll do this
in future weeks but this week we'll set
aside some time we're just setting aside
time for the Sprint to communicate with
each other so since we have set this up
where each a person is if they're on a
sprint they are primarily focusing on
that sprint that means you are not
necessarily paying attention to the work
that's going on in the other sprints in
parallel so this is a time where we can
just like partially talk about how we're
doing and how we're coordinating the
work and all of that because we're still
figuring that out but also just so that
everyone can be on keeping on top of it
and keeping track of what we're up to
and issues we're running into all of
that so that's the official schedule
would be an hour for this all hands and
then an hour for the cross sprint
chatter um but I don't think it's only
it's barely it's not even quarter
quarter of and also I don't think that
cross spring conversation is going to
take an
such creatures coming now well I got one
more thing that we could mention glad
this is como vez um so coming up the
first week of februari is the gap
hackathon with the theory Imperium and I
PFS in Seattle um the main so there's
kind of two things going on there it's
one getting if you're am deaths and I be
a festive together to work on points of
integration between those two systems
and while we're at it kind of kicking
off a public hackathon like do it
yourself at home so there's going to be
a night of talks on Sunday februari
fifth and then maybe like a drop in get
help day somewhere in the middle and
then sort of a net it's you know
announce things on on saturday or
something meanwhile the the etherium
meta mask i professed themes whoever is
able to make it are are you know working
on the core integration stuff there is a
ticket community issue 188 if anyone has
any questions about that that was a good
time that it's rapidly approaching we
have an Airbnb that's mostly full but
air beds are thing so yeah d Thank You
Morgan izing all of that I've been yeah
following the issue and try to reply as
soon as I can I'll bet he'll be there
are you like I know that keeping one and
Jeremy why you're sleeping to give a
talk are we looking for like talk like
20-30 minutes also you won't like
workshops on the first day and every got
a confirmation from Germany the he
is going to be there mmm no not yet um
the yeah we were pretty well represented
on the etherium side for talks for
sunday februari fifth um but yeah I mean
I can make
up an IPF s talk but I'm definitely not
the best person for it yeah I'll just
check in we've long and weigh or
something I have to see what their
schedule look like cool it's cool also
I'm just calling out come opposite heavy
were you watching on the stream or did
you just join I just joined yet yeah I
recommend watching the recording from
the earlier part of this because we've
restructured our whole quarterly huh and
um it's information that will be useful
for you cool and and on that road map
this athyrium hackathon is already there
on the road map wait on week six for
those who are looking at the road map
awesome thanks freedom there's the enemy
but yeah so I won't be able to come to
the hackathon directly probably but I
will try to join remotely as we all
remote people so I would refer to shift
my schedule a little bit closer to that
of the off Seattle time zones and try to
be around and available and hack on
things cool us do you appreciate it your
mama's 21 stickers I can send you like a
thousand stickers oh hell yeah that
would be awesome I will send you a
thousand signals
ah cool okay um so I believe that's it
and Johnny crunch and Frank did you do
you have anything that you wanted to
discuss the unity context no I think
Richard Richard and I right discuss
something on the IPL d called but I
think I'll leave it for that call this
friday i think i just got a cocoon
across the the get book actually for
just getting up to speed with ipf s one
thing that I rented to was ice mitad an
issue about garbage collection you know
maybe it's getting close to the time
we're actually garbage collection should
be on by default and the daemon it's
also better than issue I wish Jeremy was
on my call cuz he's the one who's been
thinking more about garbage collection
lately Oh kuba you're here well like
something just good for my lapse maybe
not half an hour like 20 minutes sorry
about that yeah can look kind of my
initial to take a look at that because
like we are just bored in notifications
and we hope nothing slips through but I
think some things my a garbage
collection currently is in a weird state
like it's very expensive operation that
we are not sure how to optimize and it
for sure can be optimized by optimizing
data source I know that Kevin had it a
lot of work on optimizing data source
with with garbage collection in mind but
we also have problems with data like the
sorrel sighs estimations and so on and
this I think this is my only day should
that stops garbage collection currently
so yeah let me a place tinkly initio
either in the decent at or IRC i will
take Lou tada thanks
jelly crunch I'm not sure when the div
ID call will be happening man charging I
don't know the current state of IPL d
ask endeavour simply don't do the normal
sprints long as i have not that's
whatever not sure I feel D will have its
own wrinkles um Nikola is not on this
call nikoloz the main I feel deeper
person might be a good idea to flag the
issue here just like mentioned that you
wants me to happen or even about
some things then you can either talk
about any issue or have a separate
appeal d call scheduled that make sense
yes yeah mostly as I mentioned is about
context and in the Jason LD world
there's this concept of actually
identifying your attributes for semantic
interoperability and I think and but i
think it's jason with json so i think
it's it's optional i think if that is
actually something that in the IPL d
world actually sort of wanted to have
the the context the attributes described
and there's some nuances about how to
actually implement that I think but I'm
on the verifiable claims task force for
w3c and so I think we're talking about
this quite a bit about in the leveraging
I PFS I pld that first in those use
cases could you could you make an issue
for that I know EDD Silverton has run
into that same thing of so in the
context of triple I F and using the JSON
there that there's this this detail
about how you handle attributes that is
not easy to reconcile with IPL d and I
know he's been sort of frustrated with
that also and so just by the but there's
not there's no issue that specifically
calls that out so it's been hard for me
to get it on Nikolas radar of like this
is a thing that needs to be handled in
order for IPL do to be easy for people
to adopt yeah sure I'll write it up and
put it is an issue thank you
awesome with that I posed we have five
more topics which will now Peter no okay
that's actually the end sweet thank you
everyone for joining the IPF s all hands
call uh you're all wonderful people
congratulations I believe we will now
segue immediately into the sprint skull
yeah yeah I divi can I can I go first
since I held off from the community
portion of the relevant part of my
sprint since we're talking about it
relative to the sprint um Matt before
you begin I just want to be very clear
with everyone the all hands call is over
if you want to go you can go thank you
um the old hands call is over but stick
around for just a moment because i have
this community relevant info that
happens to fit underneath my sprint call
and I didn't want to repeat myself okay
Matt take it away I I don't know that we
need a note taker for these for these
calls since it's mostly information
that's already recorded sort of
redundantly in a bunch of issues I I
think typing it up in in a in a hack pad
is just excessive effort Richard since
this is the first of these girls why
don't we just throw it in the All Hands
notes sure is is someone willing to
throw those notes into the bottom of the
all hands all right okay Richard thank
you for note-taking and then we'll see
if we actually need a note taker for
these discussions so the the thing
that's relevant to the community as a
whole is um so I attended a hackathon at
University of Pennsylvania this weekend
that was organized by the data refuge
and climate mirror projects those are
both um they're both communities
Riven efforts that were they arose from
people who rely on climate data sets
being worried that the data sets hosted
by the US federal government will get
turned off or the servers will get
turned off and then their data won't be
available anymore and so even if we did
not care about this data personally or
politically oh there is the interesting
thing of this is a very clear example of
centralization hurting right where you
have an entire field of researchers
spread across many different domains who
are suddenly very worried that their
data is going to disappear because one
server might get turned off or a couple
of servers controlled by one
organization like it turned off and
suddenly their entire field of
researches is in peril uh and so this is
where we have stood up and said well
let's let's um let's look at the fact
that this is a symptom of the broader
deeper problem of centralization and I
published an article about that on
medium a couple weeks ago and so at the
hackathon I got to talk to some people
about what that looks like in on the
ground of what it looks like to
decentralize a gigantic an entire field
of research and data sets and let me
tell you it's complicated and it
involves a whole lot of metadata and um
and so that's that's one thing that I
wanted is sort of relevant as just
general community discussion I we also
are spinning up a sprint where we're
collaborating with Stanford University's
libraries and probably a number of other
big big libraries with lots of storage
and archivists and preservation plans to
look at um what it looks like what it
would look like to download all of data
Cove which is about 300 or 350 terabytes
of data and preserve it on their regular
preservation systems but also publish it
on IPO
us so that it's one available for people
to use but also so that networks of
people can coordinate to help hold and
preserve these data in a distributed
fashion and so that's I exciting in and
of itself due to the nature of the
content it's also a great load test for
our systems that we currently have not
been running any tests where we load 300
terabytes of data on the IP FS and move
it across the network and so now we get
to test that and we get to see how we
can improve the user experience there
what performance issues can be tuned
this also brings up especially issues
around a file store where file store is
the label we use for this sort of index
the content in place rather than putting
a copy of it into the I PFS repo so for
example if I have 300 terabytes of data
and currently use I PFS add to add a
type EFS suddenly I have 600 terabytes
of data to store a file store would
allow you to point I PFS at those 300
terabytes and it would index it in place
and serve the serve the blocks directly
from the files that are there on your
file system so that's obviously the
bigger the data you have the more
important it is to have this feature and
so 300 terabytes definitely is over that
threshold where makes a big difference
and so I so this is where we will be
looking at can we move files stored
forward or at least get a very basic
implementation of file store merged so
that they could use it this week but
also will be looking at this sort of
triggered this topic of I PFS pack which
is basically a strategy for building
manifests of your data our manifest of
the data that you've registered and then
there's all this performance stuff and
user experience stuff around it so
that's what this sprint is focused on
its come together very very quickly so
I'm still I'm still honing in on the
clear explanation of what we are doing
in these two weeks and what we're trying
to get done by the end of these two
weeks but that's the general sense and
as far as sprint coordination we can
look at the how I was more interested in
just telling people what's up because
it's exciting interesting stuff and two
people want to ask questions about that
or did order to be could tell about his
spring and then we could go from there
to be am oh I see Johnny also as a
question yeah I just interested it
without genomic information from the
NCBI is actually included in gadag of
mm-hmm this is so this is where you're
asking is it included or you're calling
out that it is included by asking if it
is I we would have to ask so this is so
the way this came together is I have for
many years worked closely with the
libraries at Stanford and so they on
their own said we're just going to try
this we're gonna try downloading all of
data Cove and and then we're going to
try putting it on I PFS and see what
happens so they emailed us and said hey
they were basically like heads up we're
going to be trying this and we said hey
we're gonna but we're going to put some
real effort into helping you try this
and so I think from their side this has
happened so quickly that they haven't
necessarily fully figured out what is
there in data like they've managed to
figure out it's about 350 terabytes that
they would be pulling down but I don't
think they've gotten into the details of
what where how the contents but a good
point would be if those data sets the
genomics data sets are included then
this would be a good example of where a
big institution like Stanford's
libraries can hold the whole corpus but
then you
you might have all sorts of reasons to
hold your own copy of the subset that is
relevant to your field and I PFS would
give us really great ways for keeping
track of how many redundant copies are
there of this particular data set across
the network and things like that so that
sort of drifts into use cases for
cluster for I PFS cluster and
coordinating all that it brought up a
bunch of people in this area have asked
over the last few weeks um they
specifically requested or asked is there
a way to easily identify what are the
most endangered blocks on the network so
within this data set with this rude hash
what are the blocks that have the least
redundant copies on the network so that
i could pick those up and hold them
right like where is where is my storage
assistance most needed within this data
set is a use case that people have i
think five different people have
approached me about it over the past two
weeks so so that's definitely like falls
under the category of I PFS cluster in
our thinking about planning but it's a
but it also is relevant to this spring
and I think also it's a load testing I
think it's important for me so I run a
cluster about 20 machines right now and
so certainly that's how I found out it's
actually the garbage collection was
actually not on by default was actually
suddenly over a week and a half exploded
is the and so right now actually I'm
running and it looks as though there's
right now maybe a few thousand some
files yeah the two gigabytes I think of
memory right now so in most of my
machines so I did I certainly would be
interested in seeing what the load test
and would be cuz I'm trying to use this
in production for genomic analysis
pipelines and I handle about 55,000
different genomes of species so and I
haven't put all of those into IPAs yet
because I'm worried is going to hit my
my production servers cool there are
also related to that on a road map for
week 9 well week 9 in week 10
is a sprint on the the interplanetary
test lab and that's where we want to
build out better testing infrastructure
for doing this kind of load testing and
all sorts of varieties of testing that
you may want to do so it'd be great to
have you involved in planning for that
of how we can make that Tesla have most
useful it definitely also i think in the
mini json-ld or context i think it
important for that metadata it's
actually to have a that interoperability
so spits not loading redundant data and
I think when I'm still struggling with
is actually how to do that in it in the
JSON is it in a deterministic way
because actually there's an json-ld you
can actually have an expanded form the
full already a model and or a compact
form and I was obviously would be
different hashes so I think that's does
the main reason why I pld uses seaboard
and it could be asked the use case for
IPL day itself I know like I think that
you mentioned that there are some
problems with that but the vid go take
it take it over um there's the things
like one of the compact like whatever
reasons I will come back to version is
to like safe space but like when you
have a compact version you're just
saving space space on the wire you're
not saving space and serg because you
still need to keep the metadata one of
the things why you want a non compacted
on an expanded version is because you
can expend the same data in several ways
using different schemas or stimulate
evolved over time and the way that we
propose that is instead of like forcing
the data to this filter and it has to
come out under these specific schema you
just like a meta data that points to the
data itself so that like you you can
describe some data with several pieces
of metadata that you have all the
network and those cannot change over
time and you can you believe in also use
mutable pointers for those
if you want it is not using one single
processor so I can be in a low level is
just like thing that you create the raft
structure and then you serialize using
the 4matic you picked or the format that
you pics but like in a higher level you
can do the same semantic web kind of
stuff but instead of like forcing that
on the data structure you build up on
top hope this helped clarify thank you
but yeah and so I elwin question should
that should I go with my question oh I
was just going to call out the there is
also a sprint about I pld starting in
week 5 which is in two weeks yeah sure
first this I just call this call over
and thought the next one we are in the
next one oh I see ok I'll be back in two
minutes on the solidified Kobe it will
be a lot about getting the examples
getting people to understand what is the
plat freezer burn and also to get the
API too many ppl the objects on SQL and
it will still not be this semantic web
properties that will be mounted on top
about you later just horrified but then
it is strange I mean once we do the prep
for it screams it will be more clear by
the way so fast techno arrives from the
preparation I'll avoid on yeah I'm not
sure if I'm like no interrupting like
know Jhonny did you at your answer the
question answer you like to ask for some
more clarification no I think let's sort
of flush it out and I should probably
have some implementation guide for
leveraging IPL d and and really work out
an example of either it could be
expanded form or the contact form but
because those obviously will change the
hash of the pointer that of the in
resource that is described and I think
there's also some discussion about in
w3c world that really is wants to be in
a URL URI endpoint and so obviously I
PFS starts with you know /i PFS and I
know that going back about a year ago
there was actually discussions of a file
colon or UX colon slash slash and so to
describe that that I PFS but I think I
don't understand it rationale of
actually having it as a file on this
file service I PFS yeah and so the the
challenge is actually for the Jason held
the parsers to actually get caught up
the speed and recognized that in
resource maybe on a file server like I
PFS so I think so it's just mostly I
think there's needs to be some dialogue
with with the WWDC and the for us I
money verifiable claims task force which
is to be working group soon on and so
how to actually make sure we have that
because i think in Jason LD it's still
Jason in the description right in the
discussion right now is whether or not
it should just remain Jason or it should
be json-ld and in which case the context
and even i think the type is actually
part of the specification so a couple of
those on that so on that Jason lb versus
just isn't one little thing that we and
the reason why I plb is kind of like
this multi-level at guilty where you
have like the base level just on the
format that supports multiple cells and
form a keyboard or above it to involve
skeet objects and so on and like then
you can a link to all them and you can
resolve paths to all their music CDs and
the reason why we don't have any
semantic web properties on that level is
because when we look at Jason Ali and
you really try to incorporate everything
in one single package what we learned is
like once you entered a semantic web at
full throttle you start what filtering
out all the better
for example in a json-ld parser as soon
as you drop Jason that doesn't conform
with the schema the partial just dropped
it and that's like by spec right so we
cannot do that at the home at all we
need to preserve their and then we
describe kind of like this parsing
through this data or like using
different context more like a
transformation so you have a bunch of
data you have some context and you're
quite the pair to that context and you
are transforming excited in another view
of that data right and this is an area
where Nicola Greco is really working I
pretty much money per ton of this time
like what are the primitives took it to
the developers a lot of scientists that
create these transformations these views
over data and it can be plugged together
so in the end you can even have a stream
of data it can even come from a pub sub
stream like coming from some settle
somewhere and are you generating I feel
the objects and like you are
transforming and transforming and
transforming you're like you can have a
pipeline of transformations even between
organizations right like an organization
to eat today that somehow and like not
relation to sedate a little bit more
like each organization knows its context
knows where it is coming from and there
stands that and just passes the data
forward to another consumer so in the
IPL denotes you'll find more of these
contexts things described as
transformations the other thing on the
fs column flash crash the reason behind
that is so that like I give a spats or
dislike content addressable pads are
mountable are like unique spread way and
we have the swatch etfs watch ash right
now but we are moving towards having
such a pld /h to resolve on the Gateway
but weak see IDs you are actually
describing in the relative fire of the
content not only the content ash but
also the multi codex of the format you
are lifting the extension up to the link
itself and you also like describing the
version of these identifiers and the way
that it is encoded so like this
identifier makes it
really good to create paths that unique
swag that can be represented in a
friendly way for example domains cannot
have some characters so you have like
twinkle it instead of like basic idea to
include it in place 32 so see IDs make
it really nice for like if you want to
have a spaz column flash flash something
and you don't you know only need to have
the prefix of like /i PFS because as
soon as it's a CID it's a city of the
content which I PFS knows how to resolve
but you can even have like five blocks
in your system that you use just like
instead of like the full I PFS machine
you just use the the reader for from
your system and you can still understand
what better you have in your machine
without having the full note injected
and it's like why the fs column success
because it makes it agnostic it isn't
paper just like resolving my papers and
T IDs I like this key achievement where
you lift the information about the
continent your resolving to the link
itself todavia no longer needs such a
grievous massage idea but yeah actually
more like way oh I love it is this the
right way to do it i think one comment i
had was the my reservation was about
limiting the sea IDs because i think
it's the first bite or two enter your
limiting and I st. address on an account
on a theory and platform and so I think
you can all you're limited by the number
of bytes to the number of different
endpoints or saria domains or networks
and so I think well we end up limited
because we use multi codec and multi
codec is a variant so we have now if you
go to multi format / boutique codec you
find a table and it's like already
really little long and I people keep
posting more codecs for their gala
formats we have already bunch of
bacterial formats it's the cash and so
on and we just need to assign a member
to to its comment and it is like right
now adoption has been pretty smooth like
we also want to avoid adding contacts
that are white
my tongue just because i keep on to have
a lot of bandwidth and but the key we
will be able to reference as many a
girly format as we want there will not
be any limited by design then what you
might decide if your nail doesn't know
what resolve the given formats because
you don't care about you do in format so
like if you try to resolve in your note
and if you're in formatting like you
just throw you robots like it doesn't
know how to do anything else and this is
like it's interesting because I keep you
are working the browser you might not
want the full thing for everyone if you
are doing like IOT devices that are well
memory you also want to incorporate
every single ash function in the world
in every single for Martinez gotcha Oh
memory and make sets go yeah all right
my boat awesome good and we have any
next questions I still have mine quite
mad and it seems like it's time for your
question you had a question about my
sprint or you want a time freshman yes
me yeah i still haven't even what so I'm
actually a simple I am so there's a big
effort in that I logged off and like we
know about all these people that are
using this ginormous Allison I'm very
interested to learn how they are using
it what is this software where are the
implications and if those applications
are open source and we free by inviting
the iotas community to actual this issue
or like moving water channel sense on a
PFS we can also invite the community to
participate on that research because
I'll be very interested to know what
they are doing with that amount of data
what are their like research what is
that a research all right I can provide
some context of what data.gov is um
which I think partially answers your
question because sort of the answer to
your question is in the in along big
pictures that there are tons and tons of
different people building tons of
of different interfaces on top of these
data and most of it is built as web
applications then need to be hosted and
in the long run that has to change that
has all sorts of problems with it but
ultimately there was no motivation to
build those applications differently
because the data was hosted in
centralized waste but for some some
background of what is data gov dated
archive is the product of a executive
order from the Obama administration from
from very early in oklahoma's first term
where they produced an executive order
that made it so that federal agencies
are US federal agencies are obligated to
make all of their data publicly
available as public open access content
um and they're they're obligated to do
it in ways that are where the data are
actually useful right so up until that
point it was very hard to acquire data
at all from a lot of federal agencies if
you did get it it was often in a PDF so
it's like as data was pretty much
useless and so this this executive order
was aimed at changing that and datacom
was set up as a portal that was
aggregating those data from many
different federal agencies and
presenting a consistent interface for
figuring out what data are there what
formats is it available in etc etc and
so over the past six years or so I don't
remember when they first launched data
gov but in the time since then agencies
have bit by bit release data to the
point where the data that is currently
being published by federal agencies and
AG and Pat and is visible through this
portal is about 350 terabytes but it's
like it like it's genomics data its
climate data its labor statistics its
housing data it's everything that any
federal agency chose to make available
through the portal and so this is where
the this bit of it the library's at
Stanford said well all these people are
scrambling to back up all this climate
data but what let's just let's just
change the way that we distribute public
open access data sets in general um and
so they're just going at the whole thing
as which is like a giant undertaking and
this is just like the first pass of like
what's involved in just downloading all
that stuff and redistributing it I on
the like on the block level like on the
bit level like how do we download all
those bits and then redistribute them
and then over time then there's the
questions of how do you build tooling
for interfaces on to the data how do you
build metadata about it how do you keep
track of those data as they change over
time like that is a long long long term
project this is just the first like
let's just see what's involved in
downloading it and moving it around okay
dinner soon but this is photo but but to
your point there's the thing of like for
example a lot of those climate data sets
the way that researchers actually
interface with the data is by interfaces
that are hosted by a federal agency that
give you a map interface for for like
running queries basically but that the
interface for interacting with the data
and getting the data you need is is an
actual running application that that
presents the visual interface of a map
and so like there's so there's the whole
question of if you just back up the data
sets that that interface is querying but
you don't back up the code that's
querying it uh are people actually going
to be able to use the data so that's
just one example of the problems that
you're pointing at oh that people are
going to have to tackle over over time
see okay that definitely answered my
question and I yeah still very
interested in understanding one of those
apps and what people are looking forward
to do we follow that data it seems to me
like one of the things that they will
gain is that it will make it faster for
them to use and move it around and then
there will be like it will be very
interesting once the open source
community like gets hands on that dated
very easily and I can pull parts of it
and just like execute operations over it
and try PFS and seeing all sorts of
these authorizations analysis all sorts
of statistics that will come from their
data and other pieces that will come
from other quarters thank you all so
yeah that was my question all right
should I go into describing what is this
print that I'm happening for this week's
yeah awesome ok so the spring i'm
cutting produce weeks and i'm joined by
victor similarly and ours and then
anyway immediately wants to join of
course and he's browser accesses go IP
test content and by as we mean like
really being able to make the experience
of the developer that arrives at the
Jaypee best project spawning in lb in
the browser and carrying a file that
they added we do I PFS right now there's
like some like small things that you
have to understand like the fact of like
the browser cannot buy all the requisite
why people like these you have to tell
why PFS to listen on web sockets and
then you have to tell the browser to
that I watch it does it is a manual
process and then doing a process you
also have to understand that there is
lip YouTube you think that supports all
of the transports and then there's not
the other thing like it's confusing
people are expecting to spawn a note and
seek peers as they see when they spawned
a demon in their CLI with you I PFS and
that's what we are flowing we are
creating bootstrapper notes for
jessica's notes so that when be
postponed and right because know they
will FPS automatically we are finishing
up and implementing real light in
JavaScript so that week
relay connections from all groups and
promotes to occur melt in your machines
and we are also fixing one issue in here
with ours three multiplexer
implementation actually we are fixing
the issue by implementing a new stream
multiplexer and the issue is actually
found on the girl at PFS speedy stream
multiplexer and we are running a call
news 3 multiplexer to solid with you the
the rabbit hole is deep in this one but
yeah like this will enable going to pass
and Jessica Vess to exchange large files
right now there is a cap of 64 K 64k for
a file between just be personal activist
a camera doesn't exist between God be
passing by papers neither Jacob investor
just because you can today dial from
your Jessica personnel in your desktop
to the browser and I could change the
size of the file you want em to the file
what we expect we're by the end of the
spring is a very powerful demos that
people cannot just run through them as
tutorials and that they can spawn their
IP fest loads get Pierce connected cap
the files from the catapult they added
with God DFS and do not feel any pain
during the process so that more people
feel identifies and encouraged to try
out jazzy bffs there is a big list of
tasks it is available on the IPS wash
p.m. and i will visit Warren IVs Hannah
unisys on the wharf oh yeah we're not
just implementing relay and JavaScript
but also and go like there has been some
very old code for relay and go but it's
never actually been used or tested
before okay so I guess that a spiral
guap task is like understand what's
going on we go and like know if we need
to read for my dinner so say yeah what
yeah that you're hanging ok Richard had
his hand up or we're just stretching oh
okay I'm stretch it
and we'll be checking it's like I talked
about this on the call before we'll be
checking daily on the screen tissue
that's of the 180 pass p.m. for this
sprint we yeah like then all that's how
is it there a bunch of stuff is
happening if you want to how about join
the never let me know will be very
focused and down solving the problems
for this issue which means that like if
there is another bug or other thing that
we should like that comes up during this
time we might not have the availability
to shift context to fix someone or
something else to vision oh go on
Richard what's this recorded UND number
I'm looking it's in the roadmap what I
do is like I just search for browser 310
I PFS p.m. 3 10 thank you so I daveed
I've for my sprint I'm sort of still
tinkering on what's the what's the like
the right balance of how how formal how
to formalize the user stories in a way
that they're trapped especially in the
sense that like we might not get to all
of them so that like we want the user
stories to be something that someone
else could like pick up later or that we
could pick up on a future sprint um I
don't I think I heard for this sprint my
inclination would just be sort of keep
an eye on how you're doing it and keep
an eye on how I'm doing it and then we
can check in after this two weeks and
see my own sort of trade notes and route
I because we're we have so much to get
done in the next two weeks I don't want
to derail with like heat process stuff
does that make sense you
sounds good we yeah we will broke like
I'll probably run another prep session
for next spring next week maybe thursday
morning or something so maybe if we
cannot sync up like wednesday afternoon
and like compare our notes from what
went well what could have been better
then when i get to prepare the next
sprint i will incorporate all the
weddings of you transfer to me into that
perversion cool so they'll be next
wednesday not on after day after
tomorrow at least with me do we got here
when you're preparing for the next
sprint okay yeah that sounds good to me
you so yeah all right um if people do
want to follow in with the data.gov
thing there is we'll be doing the sort
of spring planning session tomorrow
probably at the time that the Monday All
Hands usually starts so 1705 p.m. UTC
will I but that partially depends on
when Jeremy's free he's on a plane right
now on so that time might change a bit
but it'll be roughly then tomorrow we'll
do a deeper sprint planning look through
the plan for the day dog of effort and
yeah and what we're gonna try to achieve
all right cool Wow less than an hour and
a half total for our whole Monday spring
cycle that's that's pretty amazing is
anyone does anyone feel that they're
being neglected right now by bit by
these calls being half as long Richard
you feel neglected in what way I wanted
to raise my headphones or something all
right yo you just want all right now
you've done okay if you like and feel
like French my lord of work
yeah that's a good point cool i will
take these notes and put them into an
issue or markdown file in meeting notes
and Matt let us know when you know about
the time tomorrow and sprint issue I
will I will keep this brain tissue up to
date so that it has a time listed right
now and unless I change that and add a
note in the comments then that's the
timeline like I was going to happen cool
David thank you for all the IPF fpm
random issues you like clothes / vomited
/ designs to be that's what i'll be
doing this week it's like going through
that but well um so let you bring
brought it up because one thing that it
keeps crossing my mind is like I do this
kind of like every other week or once a
month I just go through all the issues
like there till I get tired and I've try
to make sure like all of them get a
little bit of attention and like I
understand why is the state and what I
feel is it like we we have a bunch of
stuff that probably is already results
and what it creates like the same
syndrome where you have like inbox full
of emails the probably off of them
already are taken care of and because
you are not like deferring to a point in
the future or not just like having them
at each time you open the repo and see
oh my god like 200 issues closing this
one not going to like see any of em
right it is a huge cognitive load so and
I can't like doing get a Viking just
like going to all of them quality issues
trying to understand what can be closed
what does an action item that they
cannot quickly close it and so on and
well I think it's a great how cool like
this for me because it helps me get back
on like checking what's going on in all
the repos and I welcome everyone to try
it out once or maybe one month and yeah
maybe we can make this a a team thing
like once a month we just go to all the
issues like
we just run to all them just make sure
everyone gets getting a little bit of an
engine yeah he's good to me sound good
no thank you cool all right uh be gone a
few we thank you everyone I my starch is
waving to you
you
[Music]